# Similar_Words_Project
There are two Excel files, 'data1' and 'data2', each with seven data points and just one column: the product name. Some product names in the files are identical (names that refer to the same product) but are not given in the same name , due to English-Persian translations, differences in numerical symbols between Persian and English, or the number of white spaces between strings of words of the data points which affects the similarity score. There are also differences in capitalization for brand the names; however, in general, treating a brand name that begins with an uppercase letter as the same term as one that begins with a lowercase letter is not recommended—for example, "Apple" (the brand) versus "apple" (the fruit) or GAP (a clothing brand) versus gap (an English word meaning distance). As a result, my code uses both uppercase and lowercase to distinguish between brand names. My objective is to compare the product names in both files and report the percentage of similarity between the first and second data points. The code is as follows:
- **Parts one and two:** are standard data analysis steps in which the relevant libraries are uploaded and the data is loaded into the script for further analysis.
- **Part Three:** The data involves only a single column from a DataFrame (e.g., a list of product names), using .tolist() makes the data easier to deal with it. In difflib functions, converting to a list makes processing each item simpler.
- **Part Four:** In this part there are two dictionaries created, first dictionary is created to hold specific Persian-to-English word translations. Second dictionary maps Persian numerals to English numerals. The function, convert_numbers, iterates through each character in a given text, converts any Persian numerals to their English counterparts using persian_to_english_digits dictionary, and leaves other characters unchanged. This function also will insert a single space between each item that’s being joined, regardless of whether there were multiple spaces in the strings of data points. ' '.loin() does remove any leading and trailing whitespace as well. Therefore, it leaves a very cleaned data point. The function, translate_and_convert_product, combines number conversion and word translation:
1. It first converts Persian numbers to English with convert_numbers.
2. It then splits the text into words, translates each word using translation_dict, and reconstructs the sentence.
- **Patrt Five:** We define and applies a function, find_similar_products, to identify and quantify similarities between two lists of product names using difflib.SequenceMatcher
- **Part Six:** In theh last part we visualize the similarites using heatmap where each cell represents the similarity between a product in file1_products and one in file2_products.

